Hi guys, and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to learn about
first-class functions.
In first-class function, just means that functions
are just variables.
And you can pass them in as arguments to functions and use
them in the same way you would use any other variable.
Let's get started.
Here we have a divide function that raises a zero division
error if the divisor is zero.
We've seen this before.
And then we have a rather weird looking function.
Calculate.
That takes in any number of arguments and collects them
into this value stopple.
We've seen this before and if you can't remember how this
works, please look at the unpacking arguments lecture.
Then it also takes a mandatory key word argument parameter.
So that is operator.
And then what it does, is it calls the operator function
with the values.
That's kinda weird.
How does that work? How does it know it is a function?
Well, the simple answer is, it doesn't.
However, because we've got these brackets after the
variable name, this here must be a function,
since that is the syntax for calling a function.
No where calling this operator variable as a function
with the values passed in as individual argument.
How would we use this calculate function?
You could do something like result equal calculate
and then notice that calculate takes in
any number of arguments.
So we're gonna type twenty and four
and then were gonna type operator equals
the divide function.
But this will pass in the divide function
as the operator
and then we will only call it when we reach line nine.
Notice that this divide function is not called here,
it is only used as a value.
If you wanted to call this function,
you always have to put the brackets at the end.
That's how you call a function in Python.
So by not putting the brackets, you are passing in the value
to which this name divide refers to, which is the function,
as the value for this parameter.
So the operator parameter now has the same value
as the divide variable.
They are both this function here.
So you can call it as a function, passing in the values
as individual values so that will give you twenty for the
dividend and four for the divisor.
This here is an example of using a first-class function
because you can see that you can pass it in as an argument
to another function.
Functions in Python are just variables that happen to be
callable. You can call them with the brackets at the end.
But they're no different than any other value
other than that.
So now you can print the result if you like,
and you'll see that that has [inaudible] called
the divide function. And you get 5.0.
If you change this to a zero though,
you will end up with trace back because you tried to
divide by zero.
Something important that will be a little bit of problem in
this code is that the calculate function
takes in any number of values.
But this operator expects two values.
So if you put anymore, then you will also get an error.
Because now you're gonna pass in too
many positional arguments.
See divide takes two positional arguments
but three were given.
So that is a small problem with this code here.
But anyway the point of it was to show you
how first-class functions work.
Let's do another example.
I'm going to define a search function that takes in
a sequence of things to search through.
It will also take what you expect to find
and finally it will also take a function that will be used
to extract information from each item in the sequence,
match it against the expected value,
and see if we find what we wanted.
So we will iterate over the sequence,
then we will run the finder function on the element
and see if it is equal to the expected value.
And if it is, we will return the element
otherwise we will raise a runtime error,
saying something like,
could not find an element with expected.
So this is a little bit of a confusing function there
because it uses some parameters together with
other parameters to find a third parameter.
So a little bit weird but lets say now we have a list of
friends and we want to find out which friend is called
Bob Smith. Which here doesn't doesn't exist.
The first thing we have to do is we have define a function
that will run on one of these dictionary's,
and give us back the name.
So we will say, get friend name,
and we will make it take one parameter
and we'll say return friend, name.
So here we have a function that, if we run it on an element
in this sequence, we give us back the name property
of that element.
Be that what it may, remember this may fail if the element
doesn't have a name property.
Then we're going to print out the search,
which is this function up here.
We're gonna pass in the friends as our sequence
so this search function is going to iterate
over our friends.
Then we're going to look for, Bob Smith.
And finally how we're going to extract that value
from each element is going to be by the
get friend name function.
So just to recap, get friend name
will be the finder function.
So that will run on each element.
For example, for the first one, it will run on this
dictionary here, and it will give you back the name
property of that value. So you'll get back Rolf Smith.
The Rolf Smith will be here, and you'll compare it with
the expected value, which is Bob Smith.
If they match, you will return that element,
which is this dictionary.
The same thing will happen for all the other ones.
At this point, we don't have our friend called Bob Smith.
So by running this we will get the run-time error.
Could not find an element with expected.
However, if we change this to Rolf Smith,
then you will get it to work.
The name is Rolf Smith and the age is twenty-four.
This is quite a confusing bit of code but is a prime
example of how first-class functions can be useful.
So I would recommend giving it a go, playing around with it,
see if it makes sense. And if it doesn't please ask a
question in the course Q and A.
Of course we're always happy to help.
This is also a great place to use a lambda function.
So instead of using that function, you can just define
something like this,
and just created it there where it is used.
This is an alternative. No one is better than the other.
You can do what you prefer. The other one is slightly longer
but it does have a nicer name.
Because you get the function name and it tells
you what it does.
So that's a good thing as well.
Finally, you can use neither of these,
do you can not define your own function or use a
lambda function.
You can just use a built-in from operator,
import item getter.
And here instead of this lambda function that is used to get
a property of a object,
you can use item getter
with name.
And that does exactly the same thing.
This here, is a function that creates a function and
lets you use it afterwards.
So this is a little bit more advanced. We're going to learn
more about functions that create other functions later on.
So there you have it, that is the same thing.
I set aside the operator built-in module,
in fact quite a few of
the Python built-in modules are amazing and really useful.
All right, that's everything for this video.
I hope you've enjoyed it, I hope you've learned something,
and I'll see you in the next one.